:numbered:

[role="h2"]
Importing patient intake data to VAPALS-ELCAP

For new VAPALS-ELCAP installations, the VAPALS-ELCAP project provides an
link:../../../docs/form-fields/intake.xlsx[intake spreadsheet] which is
intended to collect intake data on patients enrolled in your lung-screening
program in advance of your institution's rollout of the system. This document
describes this process, which comes in two parts:

[options="compact"]
. Converting and importing the Excel data, then
. verifying the data before form submission.

For this process, we refer to a “VAPALS user,” who is the person overseeing the
collection of intake data via the spreadsheet, and ensuring that what's in the
VAPALS system is correct, and the “VAPALS system administrator,” who is
responsible for importing the intake data and making it available for review by
the VAPALS User before it actually gets submitted to the system.

== Prior to the import

The VAPALS system administrator may wish to familiarize themselves with the
import process prior to importing the actual data. If so, you are strongly
encouraged to do this on a test server.

== For the VAPALS user

When the VAPALS User is ready to have the spreadsheet imported, it should be
made available to the VAPALS system administrator.

== For the VAPALS system administrator

{zwj}NOTE: If there are issues, please contact your VAPALS-ELCAP development
team with as much data as possible for instruction and fixes.

=== Export the data from Excel

Open the spreadsheet in Excel, and export it in tab-delimited text
format. (This will be referred to below as the “TSV file,” even if Excel wants
to name it with a file extension of `.txt`.)

(Note: If you are testing the import process on a test server, but don't have
the import data yet, you may use the pre-exported data at
link:intake-test-data-tab-del.txt[`intake-test-data-tab-del.txt`] to experiment
with.)

=== Copy it to the correct location

The VAPALS system administrator should then copy the TSV file to the `www`
directory at the top layer of the `osehra` directory on the VAPALS-ELCAP
server. (In other words, it should be a file in the `/home/osehra/www`
directory.)

=== Check the environment

Make sure the site is configured. If you aren't sure, check with the system
administrator. If you are the system administrator, and you don't know, see the
link:how-to-add-a-vapals-site.html[instructions for configuring a new site].

=== Enter M

Type [ttsp]##mumps -dir## at the Unix prompt to enter the M programmer's
environment.

=== Start the conversion program

Type [ttsp]##DO LOAD^SAMILD2## at the M prompt to start the conversion program.

=== Enter site code

Enter your three-letter site code. (If you don't have one, see
link:how-to-add-a-vapals-site.html[__How to add a VAPALS site__].)

For this example, we will be using a dummy site, but you are expected to be
using your own site or a test site.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Select SAMI SITE: XXX  VISTA HEALTH CARE     XXX      6100
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== Specify the correct directory

Hit enter to accept the default directory (unless you had to put the TSV file
somewhere else):

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
File Directory: /home/osehra/www/// _
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== Begin conversion

After [ttsp]##Replace##, enter three periods (`...`) to accept replacing the
whole file name, after "With" enter the file you want to use. Hit enter after
the second "Replace" to let it know that you don't want to replace anything
else.

Example:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Enter filename to load.: LCSV2_DATA_2021-06-29_REDCAP.tsv
  Replace ... With intake-test-data-tab-del.txt  Replace 
   intake-test-data-tab-del.txt
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note: If you didn't put the TSV file in the right place, or something is
misspelled, you'll see a error that looks something like this:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
%YDB-E-SETECODE, Non-empty value assigned to $ECODE (user-defined error trap)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The output you _should_ see begins with something similar to this:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
keyrow is 3 ROW=saminame	ssn	last5	sigi	sex	sbdob ...
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The output could spout out for many pages and several minutes depending on how
many lines of data you have in the TSV file. Don't worry if you see
[ttsp]##`********` exception `**********`##---it's not a bad thing.

=== Exit M

Once the output stops, type `halt` at the prompt to go back out to the Unix level.

The data should now be converted.

== For the VAPALS user

Start the VAPALS application using your web browser. (Check with your system
administrator if you haven't been given the web address and your login
credentials.)

=== Reviewing the Intake forms before submitting changes

The IT team and the medical expert team recommends that you review Intake Forms
the first time you encounter the patient after moving the data over to
VAPALS-ELCAP, instead of trying to do them all at once.

For each patient, check these fields in particular:

[options="compact"]
[loweralpha]
. ††Eligible based on chart review?††
. ††Was a pre-enrollment discussion held?††
. ††Primary address verified?††

If you find a discrepancy on the patient's intake form, please check the
spreadsheet to see if it was entered correctly there. If it was correct on the
spreadsheet, but incorrect on the Intake Form, please let your VAPALS-ELCAP
system administrator team know which field was incorrect, and as long as it
isn't the name or MRN, let us know what the value was on the spreadsheet and on
the intake form, and describe what the difference was as specifically as
possible.

If there is not a selection, please fill it in. It is most likely to be a `No`
but could have been missed in the process of entering data in the spreadsheet.

When everything looks good, hit ††*Submit*†† at the bottom of the form. You can
choose ††Save for Later†† if you aren't ready to submit the form.
