:doctitle:    VA-PALS – Projects – Vista Expertise Network
:mastimg:     aboutvista
:mastcaption: Vista consultants
:mastdesc:    Real-time patient information means real care

== VA-PALS Meetings

Preserving all the minutes in one place. Note that action items are in
[red]##red##.

[options="compact"]
* <<v20170922,VA-PALS>> --- 2017-09-22
* <<n20170908,National Implementation>> --- 2017-09-08
* <<v20170908,VA-PALS>> (pilot) --- 2017-09-08
* <<v20170901,VA-PALS>> (pilot) --- 2017-09-01

[[v20170922]]
=== VA-PALS meeting --- 2017-09-22 (Fri) 11:00 EDT

Rick Avila,
Laura Cartwright,
Domenic DiNatale,
Claudia Henschke,
Kathy Ice,
Artit Jirapatnakil,
Rick Marshall,
PeeWee,
Paska Permana,
Vivian Reccoppa,
Angel Williams,
Linda Yaw,
Rowena Yip.

**Topics:**

* **Server Install**

** Server install is moving forward. Sam spoke with chief of Biomedical
   Engineering and with OIT to find out where to receive the server.

** Artit’s WOC is proceeding.  Currently at the VA with the background check.

** Images through the Phoenix VA may transfer via the PACs system.

** The PAC system and the I-ELCAP system will work separately in parallel in
   Phoenix. In NY it works best if the I{nbhy}ELCAP system pulls the images directly
   from the CT scanner.

** Drew would like to set some timelines, Claudia asks push timeline planning
   until Monday.

* **Pack-Year Clinical Reminder**

** PeeWee says Phoenix looked at the national PY reminder – which hasn’t been
   implemented across all VAs. PeeWee is hoping to setup a meeting with Medical
   Informatics to setup and adapt what already exists. Peewee meets with PAC
   teams next week and hopes to have something formalized.

* **Encounter Note**

** PeeWee has been working on writing out an encounter note.  They have
   examined a few options but have not yet made a final decision. PeeWee has
   been reviewing what is available in the toolkit. The use of it is still
   under discussion.

** Claudia notes that the encounter note may be modified across different
   sites.

** Drew thinks that keeping the note title consistent may be enough for rural health.

** Drew notes that we want the note to be something that will be specific to
   outreach efforts. He suggests ``Lung Screening Outreach'' and a different
   name for the other types of notes.

** Drew notes that he can provide feedback if Phoenix would like, once a draft
   is created.

* **Local Press Release**

** This is pending Sam’s decision.

* **Summit**

** Claudia suggests getting the radiologists most interested in reading on
   board with our project and then get the chief. The chief would be limited if
   their radiologists hate it.

** Claudia thinks we should work on the radiologists. Great to have a chest
   radiologist or whoever is interested in developing this skill. Paska
   believes Wendy Stiles would be most interested in Phoenix.

** [red]##Drew is identifying local radiologists at each site.##

** [red]##Drew asks that Phx identify a radiologist to attend the summit.##

* **Rural Health**

** PeeWee included informatics to work with Dan Palmeri. Peewee doesn’t believe
   that the meeting is set up yet. Peewee made the introduction via email but
   it was late last week. Pete was on his way to Seattle so it may have been
   delayed.

** Drew says that Martinsville WV would be very interested in participating in
   this study if there were funds available to support it

** Drew notes that there has been a shift from VA individuals saying they’re
   excited about lung screening to saying that they’re excited about
   implementing I-ELCAP.

** March 16/17 is the next I-ELCAP meeting.

** [red]##Drew needs to work with Sam to move forward on rural health
   funds. Paska will touch base with Sam.##

* **Other business**

** Drew has been trying to get a system approved for 2.5 years and it has been
   very difficult because it’s an information security issue.

** Houston is moving to hiring a navigator in a month or so, funding has been
   released earlier than they thought.

[[n20170908]]
=== National Implementation meeting --- 2017-09-08 (Fri) 11:45 EDT

Rick Avila,
Laura Cartwright,
Domenic DiNatale,
Claudia Henschke,
Kathy Ice,
Artit Jirapatnakil,
George Lilly,
Rick Marshall,
Drew Moghanaki,
Nickolas Prado,
Vivian Reccoppa,
Angel Williams,
David Yankelevitz,
Linda Yaw.

**Topics:**

* **OIT Support**

** National OIT managers do not pay attention to projects until a project is
   put on the National Roadmap.

** VIPR on hold.

** Important to let everyone know the OSEHRA activities start next week, first
   OSERHA call scheduled for 9/20. We should have regular OSERHA calls which
   will be helpful in progressing and gaining VA approval.

** Rural health has classified the project as Enterprise Wide Initiative. We
   will be working with QEURI to guide implementation.

** Alan Constantian call is being scheduled for the end of September. Rick
   Avila says this should be a pretty basic request. We need .25 FTE across
   several individuals. At times it will be working in the core of VistA. Can’t
   predict the exact needs. Rick Marshall suggests they should be informed on
   the cost as they roll out many projects. Rick Avila, Rick Marshall and Drew
   Moghanaki on the call with Alan Constantian.

** [red]##Laura Cartwright will contact Rick Avila, Rick Marshall and Drew
   Moghanaki about the Alan Constantian call.##

* **Image Transfers**

** We will hire PACTS administrator in Richmond.

** Drew Moghanaki wants to eventually have a call with Mike Beaver, Rick Avila
   and Artit Jirapatnakil.

** [red]##Drew Moghanaki will setup the Compass Router call with Artit
   Jirapatnakil and Rick Avila.##

* **VA-PALS Website**

** Use whatever hosting service that Kate suggests

* **Tracker Demo**

** Angela Fabbrini will present the tracker at I-ELCAP.

* **Meeting Time Change**

** Can’t go earlier for Seattle team. Drew will have to jump off call early 2x
   a month for Lung Tumor Boards.

* **VistA App Dev**

** Background form demo by George Lilly.

** When form is recalled it will auto-populate the text fields.

** Rick Avila – have we settled on the UI? George – continuing to prototype
   September.

** Rick Marshall believes that we can recreate the I-ELCAP and THEN work on
   weaving that into the existing VistA data structures. This means first year
   would be web UI and integrating into VistA, and year 2 would be informed by
   the feedback from the 10 sites but is still considering the best structure
   moving forward.

** Rick Avlia will set up a call next week to discuss this issue further.

** MITAR has released a database of synthetic patients, Synthea. George
   downloaded the first 1K and loaded them into a VistA system. They have a
   large variety of conditions and the next step is to then load them in as
   test patients.

** Rick Avila is going to contact Claudia about the possibility of using
   anonymized I-ELCAP patient paths to populate the VA-ELCAP for testing.

** [red]##Rick Avlia will setup a call with VEN.##

** [red]##Rick Avila will contact Claudia about test patients.##

* **OSERHA Press Release**

** Press release on the OSERHA working groups.

** [red]##Rick Marshall will fwd press release to the group.##

[[v20170908]]
=== Pilot meeting --- 2017-09-08 (Fri) 11:00 EDT

Rick Avila,
Laura Cartwright,
Domenic DiNatale,
Claudia Henschke,
Kathy Ice,
Artit Jirapatnakil,
George Lilly,
Rick Marshall,
Drew Moghanaki,
PeeWee,
Paska Permana,
Linda Yaw.

**Topics:**

* **Updates**

** We have been classified as an enterprise-wide initiative by the Office of
   Rural Health, increasing our chances of a national release.

** We will be talking with the QUERI group. Want to learn from our group
   regarding our experiences implementing across several VA locations.

* **Server Install**

** Discussion with BioMed waits until Sam gets back next week.

** Codes are the same being used outside the VA system.

** Code for the first CT screening G297 code, follow up is coded
   differently. These are newly introduced, so looking at prior screening
   requires drilling down into the coding.

** Artit’s WOC is progressing---HR is contacting his references.

* **Pack-Year Clinical Reminder**

** Developing inside and outside the system. Claudia, Paska and PeeWee are
   working on developing templates but need input on it from physicians and Sam
   in Phoenix. CMS requires you say how old and total number of pack years and
   currently a smoker or trying to quit.

** Claudia thinks that post VA session there should be a gathering of what
   points to discuss, Rick will be there. Want to think about what should be
   discussed. Drew suggests safeguarding the discussion. Shared decision making
   or clinical decision making is a separate issue---the encounter note should
   be just a way to document point of contact.

** Claudia does not plan to discuss the encounter note during 37th. Suggests
   setting a time to talk to contain all the topics that will naturally arise.

** Drew suggests Chris Slatore to keep the peace. Claudia will email Chris
   Slatore to strategize how best to shape the VA discussions

* **Encounter Note**

* **Local Press Release**

** Paska and PeeWee more than welcome to work with the local PR person once Sam
   returns.

** Will wait until Sam comes back to contact the PR release.

** Drew would like to see the release from Phoenix before it launches
   nationally.

* **Nurse III**

** Learned that we can push money to hire a nurse practitioner as early as
   October. It’s Sam’s decision how best to use the ORH funding.

** Paska asks about the VA-PALS funding. The ORH funding is on top of BMSF
   funding. Funding discussions will happen later.

** Money to hire the nurse will not go through research. It will likely go
   directly to Pulmonary or Nursing.

* **Summit Attendees**

** First VA wide lung screening summit. A bigger focus than I-ELCAP. Whole
   thingwill be VA. Implementation issues, SCM with Veteran issues, local
   challenges and forward thinking opportunities (Image transfer).

** Currently planning on Sam, Paska & PeeWee.

** Paska suggests maybe someone from radiology or informatics.

** Claudia suggests going back to BMSF for funding of screening but Drew was
   told they do not support these types of Summits, but he will ask again about
   supplemental funding.

** Claudia notes that it’s a bit too early to invite BMSF leadership---but that
   we should do so in the future..

** [red]##Drew will contact BMSF about supplemental funding.##

* **Budget Reports**

** Diane Eline (sp?) and Laura Davis are the points of contact in Phoenix for
   research and budget information.

** [red]##Paska will email Laura the information for Laura Davis and Diane
   Eline.##

* **37th Drew Slides**

* **Action Item summary:**

** **Drew:** Contact BMSF about supplemental funding.

** **Paska:** Email Laura the information for Laura Davis and Diane Eline.

[[v20170901]]
=== Pilot meeting --- 2017-09-01 (Fri) 11:00 EDT

**Attendees:**
Alexis Carlson,
Laura Cartwright,
Domenic DiNatale,
George Lilly,
Drew Moghanaki,
Paska Permana.

**Topics:**

* **Press Release**

** The press release is out and we have 25 emailees who received it. Rick,
   Claudia and Drew crafted a summary of the project with more information.
** Bruce Johnson (pres ASCO) responded positively.
** Phoenix is named in the press release.
** Once an authorized press release is released it can be reproduced locally.
** Do not speak on behalf of VA---not authorized to do so.
** We want to avoid the message spinning out of control.
** Centralize all the information on the VA-PALS website.
** Can Paska share the press release with local medical media? Yes, but be
   careful when asked for additional information.
** Sam will be back at the end of next week. Let’s discuss next week.
** [red]##Laura will talk to Kate about developing a landing page for the
    website.##
** [red]##If speaking to the press, do not speak on behalf of the VA.##

* **Website**

** [red]##Laura will get Kate press release and summary for a front page.##

* **January Summit**

** On hold due to flooding
** Are we comfortable sending a save the date? 

** Agenda would be the spirit of embracing all the work that the VA is doing
   and how this project will add a new dimension to the VA processes. We want
   the sites that are currently screening to want to add the I{nbhy}ELCAP
   program to their current screening program. A focused QA session. CH{nbsp}
   suggests that Houston will work out fine.

** [red]##Drew will be sending out a Save the Date notice.##

* **Action Item summary:**

** **All:** If speaking to the press stress that you are _not_ speaking on
   behalf of the VA.

** **Claudia:** Will connect with Paska and PeeWee Wednesday or Thursday;
   following that call they will wait for Sam to return to discuss the
   encounter note further.

** **Drew:** Send out Save the Dates for the January Screening Summit.

** **Laura:** Will work with Kate to develop a landing page for the website,
   and provide press release and summary.
     
** **PeeWee:** Will be looking into the codes Phoenix currently uses for
   screening.
     
